CAP-0067 update after 02/27 protocol meeting (#1667)
stellar/stellar-protocol: core/cap-0067.md

## Abstract

The changes specified by this CAP - 
* Remove the admin from the topics of the `mint` and `clawback` events emitted in the SAC.
* Update issuer semantics in the SAC so that a `transfer` involving the issuer will emit the semantically correct event (`mint` or `burn`).
* Add memo support to Soroban by adding a `SC_ADDRESS_TYPE_MUXED_ACCOUNT` and allow the SAC to take in this type in the `transfer` function call.
* Update the `data` field in the `transfer` event from an integer to a map to store additional memo information.
* Prohibit the transaction memo from being set on Soroban transactions.

> * Emit an event for every movement of an `Asset` of types `ASSET_TYPE_NATIVE`, `ASSET_TYPE_CREDIT_ALPHANUM4`, and `ASSET_TYPE_CREDIT_ALPHANUM12`. in Stellar classic. All of the added events will follow the format of the existing Stellar Asset Contract events, with the exception of a new `fee` event to track fees paid by the source account.

Reviewer: LiquidityPool share tokens are no transferrable, is that correct?

This patch of XDR changes is based on the XDR files in commit `734bcccdbb6d1f7e794793ad3b8be51f3ba76f92` of stellar-xdr.
```diff mddiffcheck.ignore=true
diff --git a/Stellar-contract.x b/Stellar-contract.x
index 5113005..a7c3c7f 100644
--- a/Stellar-contract.x
+++ b/Stellar-contract.x
@@ -179,7 +179,10 @@ case CONTRACT_EXECUTABLE_STELLAR_ASSET:
 enum SCAddressType
 {
     SC_ADDRESS_TYPE_ACCOUNT = 0,
-    SC_ADDRESS_TYPE_CONTRACT = 1
+    SC_ADDRESS_TYPE_CONTRACT = 1,
+    SC_ADDRESS_TYPE_CLAIMABLE_BALANCE = 2,
+    SC_ADDRESS_TYPE_LIQUIDITY_POOL = 3,

> +    SC_ADDRESS_TYPE_MUXED_ACCOUNT = 4

Reviewer 2: Since LPs/CBs are only present in events, maybe it makes sense to have them be present in a different kind of address structure? Otherwise there's pretty significant downstream impact (code+docs) just to handle what essentially amount to error cases.

Author: The initial version of CAP-0067 used a different type for the events, but the story for users made more sense if we just used the same address union - https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/1613#discussion_r1914698507.

Reviewer: This is a tradeoff. Using different types would require having two different types in the ScVal. Solve one problem, create a new one. I think that would be more confusing than simply using the same type and communicating you won't see some in the input, you won't see some in the output. Any tooling doing conversion to and from ScVal would need to know the context it was occurring in, which is possible in the cases I can think of, but not ideal.

Reviewer 3: Re:
> Otherwise there's pretty significant downstream impact (code+docs) just to handle what essentially amount to error cases.

Specifically this part `to handle what essentially amount to error cases.` - I am not sure it is entirely true.
Regardless of this change, there is significant downstream changes that will need to be made in the SDK, as a part of P23 release(CAP-67 or not), no?
In that sense, this is no more work than downstream would have to do whenever any P-xx release goes out.

IMO we shouldnt be treating these 2 ScAddresses any differently than the existing ones, especially considering that they are getting first class support in 2 ways:
1/ They appear in events as `to`, `from` addresses
2/ There is strkey support for conversion to and from these types to readable strings.

Reviewer 2: I must've missed that discussion, sorry to necro it but I think it's worth re-discussing after all of the changes.

What I mean is that the _only_ time `ScAddress` will be anything but `Contract|AccountId` is in **(a)** an emitted event (i.e. pure output) or **(b)** `MuxedAccount` for an SAC `transfer` call (the **only** valid input case).

There are so many other cases where `ScAddress` is used: contract invocation, authorization entries, contract data entries, etc. This means anyone dealing with those parts of Soroban now has to :thinking: about enum arms that are never valid. You could even say that liquidity pool IDs and claimable balances do not respect the "**s**mart **c**ontract" part of an `ScAddress`. This is a little confusing imo, but also might not be worth the tradeoff for a separate `ScVal` arm.

This isn't just me being a lazy SDK developer, btw (the SDK work is like a dozen LoC). Rather I'm highlighting the possible downstream confusion for both dApp and contract authors.

The burden is on us to document well, that e.g. `SorobanAddressCredentials` will never have a liquidity pool as its source `Address`, which historically we as devs generally are reactive rather than proactive on. I do honestly think it's fine to bundle it all under the same `ScAddress` umbrella, but we need to define a clear path to clarity for downstream users and devs.

Reviewer 3: > You could even say that liquidity pool IDs and claimable balances do not respect the "smart contract" part of an ScAddress

wait a min, the `Sc` in `ScAddress`... is that short for `Soroban Contract`?
As in, the original intent of the `ScAddressType` was to indicate the kinds of addresses that one can expect to see in a soroban contract?
If, yes, then I take it back. 
I agree with @Shaptic 
I see how this can sow confusion amongst people who are doing smart contract stuff on stellar.
it might be worthwhile to circle back and ask users about this.

Author: Well we're going to emit these ScVal events from classic, so naming is already weird. I agree with @leighmcculloch that just indicating the possible input and output types is simpler than using a new type. @Shaptic do you mind starting a thread in the github discussion so we can get this PR merged. If we decide to make any changes, I'll open a new PR.

At the moment, if the issuer is the sender in a Stellar Asset Contract `transfer`, the asset will be minted. If the issuer is the recipient, the asset will be burned. The event emitted in both scenarios, however, is the `transfer` event. This CAP changes that behavior to instead emit the `mint`/`burn` event.

### Update the `transfer` function to take in a `MuxedAccount` for `from` and `to`

This change will allow the `transfer` event to emit muxed information for exchange support. 

### Update the `data` field in the `transfer` event from an integer to a map to store additional memo information.

Make the `data` field a map on the `transfer` event. Here are the following relevant scenarios and what the resulting events should look like - 

1. For Soroban transfers -
   1. If either or both `from` and `to` are of type `KEY_TYPE_MUXED_ED25519`, then the respective `u64` IDs will be pulled out and emitted in the data field - `topics: ["transfer", from:G, to:G] data: { amount: i128, from_muxed_id:u64, to_muxed_id:u64 }`. Note that `from` and `to` are the ed25519 addresses, not the muxed address.

> 2. For any of the `transfer` events that can be emitted by non-soroban operations -

Reviewer: Could we enumerate all the affected operations? I think this is an area where underspecification puts at risk of missing important details or impacts. We could add commentary about the mapping of memos to the New Events section below, which has a subsection for each operation already.

The critical things I think we should be specific about is how mapping of the memo works with operations like claiming a claimable balance, where the destination is the source account.

Author: Updated. Please let me know what you think. Some of the scenarios are a little weird eg. path payments.

>    1. The memo in a non-Soroban transaction can be one of `MEMO_NONE`, `MEMO_TEXT`, `MEMO_ID`, `MEMO_HASH`, or `MEMO_RETURN`. This memo will be forwarded for the destination, so `to_muxed_id` can be one of those types mentioned eg. `topics: ["transfer", from:G, to:G] data: { amount: i128, from_muxed_id:u64, to_muxed_id:u64|String|BytesN<32> }`.

Reviewer: We should be explicit that the `RETURN` and `HASH` memo types are merged into an indistinguishable `BytesN<32>`.

Author: Updated

Reviewer 2: I'd like to suggest that we use an enum type for memos rather than `|`ing them :thinking:

Author: Yeah they will `ScVals`. I updated this section to make things clear.

   2. If the sender of the `transfer` is muxed, then `from_muxed_id` will be emitted with the `MEMO_ID` on that muxed account.

>    3. If the destination of the `transfer` is muxed, then `to_muxed_id` will be emitted with the `MEMO_ID` on the muxed account. If the destination is not muxed, but the transaction memo is set, then `to_muxed_id` will be emitted with the memo on the transaction.

Reviewer 4: Am I understanding correctly that memo info will be encoded in the `to_mux_id` field, so it's sharing the field with the memo ID of the `to` address? Why not make the memo an additional optional field? 
Is it implicit that the `to` address being a muxedAddress and memo field existing cannot be both true?

Author: We will choose one based on an order of precedence. We don't want to reintroduce this concept of a transaction memo to soroban, which is why we're going to stop allowing transactions memos in soroban transactions. This order of precedence will only apply for classic transactions.

3. For both scenarios, note that the map will only contain a `from_muxed_id` and/or `to_muxed_id` if there is muxed information for the addresses, so the data field can have one, two, or three elements.

> ### Prohibit the transaction memo from being set on Soroban transactions

Author: Do we care that a soroban transaction with `SOROBAN_CREDENTIALS_ADDRESS` and a muxed source account is not prohibited here?

Reviewer 5: It seems safer to prohibit this as well. The muxed source should be pushed into the operation itself. I don't think it should matter that the muxed account has paid fees.

Author: done

> Any Soroban transaction that has a memo set will be rejected as invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any transaction with an `InvokeHostFunctionOp` operation that has `memo` set to a value other than `MEMO_NONE` will be rejected as invalid.
```

Author: Updated

At the moment, if the issuer is the sender in a Stellar Asset Contract `transfer`, the asset will be minted. If the issuer is the recipient, the asset will be burned. The event emitted in both scenarios, however, is the `transfer` event. This CAP changes that behavior to instead emit the `mint`/`burn` event.

### Update the `transfer` function to take in a `MuxedAccount` for `from` and `to`

This change will allow the `transfer` event to emit muxed information for exchange support. 

### Emit a map as the `data` field in the `transfer` event if muxed information is being emitted.

> The `data` field is currently an integer that represents the `amount`. If no muxed information is being emitted, this will not change. If we're emitting muxed information, then the `data` field on the `transfer` event will be an `SCVal` of type `SCV_MAP`. In

Reviewer 2: > If no muxed information is being emitted, this will not change.

Is this temporary (e.g., 1 protocol) or permanent?

Author: Permanent

Reviewer 2: Your terms are gross but acceptable

For a payment not involving the issuer, or if both the sender and receiver are the issuer:
```

> contract: asset, topics: ["transfer", from:Address, to:Address, sep0011_asset:String], data: { amount:i128 }

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure what is this supposed to mean, given that for all the remaining fields the names do not exist in the events. 

We need to update SEP-41, but given that a singular i128 field in the data has to be supported for the historical purposes, I guess that the spec would say 'either i128 field with transfer amount, or a map that has at least `amount(Symbol)->amount_value:i128` KV pair present. Then we could emit i128 unless we also emit mux ids.

I assume that if we had balance in the events, then we'd need to always emit maps, but we don't seem to do that for p23.

Reviewer: `{ }` is a map. `amount` is an assumed Symbol. Consistent I think what you're saying. We should be more explicit though. 👍🏻

Author: Yeah my intention was to say the data field was always a map, so even in the `data: amount:i128` case, you'd see `amount(Symbol)->amount_value:i128`. I'll update the CAP to make this clear.

Dima IIUC, I think you're actually advocating for still emitting the data field as an integer today if we're emitting only the amount because we'll always have to support that anyways?

Author: Yeah my intention was to say the data field was always a map, so even in the `data: amount:i128` case, you'd see `amount(Symbol)->amount_value:i128`. I'll update the CAP to make this clear.
@dmkozh IIUC, I think you're actually advocating for still emitting the data field as an integer today if we're emitting only the amount because we'll always have to support that anyways?

Reviewer: Emitting a map for all is a way to ensure all downstream systems see this change and aren't surprised by the first time they encounter the edge cases like muxed accounts.

Reviewer 5: > We should be more explicit though.

Yeah, there are no implied symbols here otherwise. Also, some events were not updated, but I assume that was unintentional.

> Emitting a map for all is a way to ensure all downstream systems see this change and aren't surprised by the first time they encounter the edge cases like muxed accounts.

This is kind of debatable, since the integer format still has to be supported and map costs more to emit. If someone wanted to integrate with the unified events, they'd need to support both formats either way, and it's not too hard to discover. That said, I don't feel about this too strongly; I can see some merit to using the map (almost) everywhere as well.

Reviewer: 👍🏻 I agree with all those points. Especially if other events won't be updated and will still emit a u64 data section.

Author: I updated the CAP to use an integer data field if only the amount is being emitted, and a map otherwise with some details added.

Note that if the path payment has an empty path and `sendAsset == destAsset`, then the operation is effectively a regular [payment](#payment), so emit an event following the specifications of the payment section.

As specified in the [section to update the transfer events data field](#Update-the-data-field-in-the-transfer-event-from-an-integer-to-a-map-to-store-additional-memo-information), both `from_muxed_id` and `to_muxed_id` can be added to the `data` map on the `transfer` event. More specifically, if the source account is muxed and appears as `from` or `to` in an event, the respective `from_muxed_id` or `to_muxed_id` will be set. For the final event to the destination, if it is a `transfer`, `to_muxed_account` will be set if the `destination` is muxed, and if not, then it'll be set if the tx memo is set.

#### Create Account
Emit the following event:
```
contract: native asset, topics: ["transfer", from:Address, to:Address, sep0011_asset:String], data: { amount:i128 }
```

* `from` is the account being debited (creator).
* `to` is the account being credited (created).
* `amount` is the starting native balance.

> Note that no event will be emitted if the `amount` is 0.

Reviewer 4: Should we make this true in general? Seems a bit odd to specialize this edge case only here.

Author: Hmm yeah you bring up a good point. The SAC `transfer` function always emits the event, even with a 0 amount. I believe this should also be specified in SEP-0041 (I'll check). So for consistency, I'll remove this.
